README.md, before:

<a href="#">
  <img width=100% src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=3da37a&height=120&section=header"/>
</a>

# 🧑🏻‍💻 Hi, I'm Yash! Great to see you here <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/hvRJCLFzcasrR4ia7z/giphy.gif" width="28"> <img align="right" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Tarikul-Islam-Anik/Animated-Fluent-Emojis/master/Emojis/Animals/Penguin.png" alt="Penguin" width="15%" />
 <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?color=E22FE4&width=380&height=45&lines=Coding+Enthusiast;Always+Learning+New+Things;Empowering+Others;Nice+To+Meet+You+..."></a>

🚀 **`Digital Specialist Engineer @ Infosys`**  
💻 **`Full Stack & Backend Engineer | DSA & System Design`**  
🎯 **`Actively seeking SDE roles (MAANG / Product-Based Companies)`**

## 👨‍💻 About Me
Hi, I'm Yash Kumar ([@yashk9293](https://github.com/yashk9293)) a tech enthusiast and software developer. I have completed my Bachelors of Technology in Electronics & Communications Engineering (Major) with a Minor in Computer Science Engineering from Indian Institute of Information Technology, Bhagalpur (2021 - 25). I am a full-stack software developer and competitive programmer with strong experience in JavaScript/TypeScript ecosystems (MERN, Next.js) and Java-based backend systems (Spring Boot). I focus on building and scaling resilient, high-performance, production-ready applications. With a solid foundation in data structures, object-oriented design, and system development, I enjoy solving complex problems and staying aligned with industry trends to deliver impactful, production-ready solutions. I thrive in collaborative environments where ideas are shared, challenged, and transformed into meaningful outcomes.

<img align="right" alt="coding" width="500" src="https://media.giphy.com/media/SWoSkN6DxTszqIKEqv/giphy.gif">

<p align="left"> <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=yashk9293&label=Profile%20views&color=0e75b6&style=flat" alt="yashk9293" /> </p>

<p align="left">
  <a href="https://github.com/yashk9293?tab=followers">
         <img alt="followers" title="Follow me on Github" src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/github/followers/yashk9293?color=236ad3&labelColor=1155ba&style=for-the-badge&logo=person-add&label=Follow&logoColor=white"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/yashk9293?tab=repositories&sort=stargazers">
         <img alt="total stars" title="Total stars on GitHub" src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/github/stars/yashk9293?color=55960c&style=for-the-badge&labelColor=488207&logo=star"/></a>
</p>

- 🌱 I’m currently learning **Spring Boot**

- 💬 Ask me about **Data Structures & Algorithms, Backend Engineering, System Design**

- 📫 How to reach me **yashk9293@gmail.com**

- 🧑‍💻 Open to collaborative problem-solving on **Leetcode and Codeforces**.

<h3 align="left">Connect with me:</h3>
<p align="left">
<a href="https://twitter.com/yashk_9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/twitter.svg" alt="yashk_9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://linkedin.com/in/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/linked-in-alt.svg" alt="yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://instagram.com/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/instagram.svg" alt="yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://fb.com/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/facebook.svg" alt="yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
</p>


<br>
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/069dff95-6d5d-4813-9c21-1493108c3e14">

<!-- <p align="left"> <a href="https://github.com/ryo-ma/github-profile-trophy"><img src="https://github-profile-trophy.vercel.app/?username=yashk9293" alt="yashk9293" /></a> </p> -->

<div align="center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="https://montasim-github-profile-trophy.vercel.app?username=yashk9293&theme=radical&no-bg=true&no-frame=true"  alt="github profile trophy"/>
</div>





<!---
<h3 align="left">Profile Links:</h3>
<p align="left">
<a href="https://leetcode.com/u/hSay5/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/leet-code.svg" alt="https://leetcode.com/u/hSay5/" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://www.codechef.com/users/coderboy9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.1.0/icons/codechef.svg" alt="https://www.codechef.com/users/coderboy9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/user/yashk9293/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/geeks-for-geeks.svg" alt="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/user/yashk9293/" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://codeforces.com/profile/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.1.0/icons/codeforces.svg" alt="https://codeforces.com/profile/yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
</p>
--->

### 🧰 Languages and Tools:
![C](https://img.shields.io/badge/c-%2300599C.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=c&logoColor=white) 
![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/c++-%2300599C.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E) 
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-%23007ACC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-007396.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=java&logoColor=white)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-14354C?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Netlify](https://img.shields.io/badge/netlify-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=netlify&logoColor=#00C7B7) 
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-%23039BE5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase) 
![HTML](https://img.shields.io/badge/html-E34F26.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![Vercel](https://img.shields.io/badge/vercel-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white) 
![Render](https://img.shields.io/badge/Render-%46E3B7.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=render&logoColor=white)
![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB)
![TailwindCSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/tailwindcss-%2338B2AC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)
![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) 
![Nodemon](https://img.shields.io/badge/NODEMON-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=nodemon&logoColor=%BBDEAD)
![NPM](https://img.shields.io/badge/NPM-%23CB3837.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=npm&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB) 
![React Router](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_Router-CA4245?style=for-the-badge&logo=react-router&logoColor=white) 
![CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/css-1572B6.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-%234ea94b.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)
![Postgresql](https://img.shields.io/badge/postgreSQL-4169E1.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-039BE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=Firebase&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![Figma](https://img.shields.io/badge/figma-764ABC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=figma&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-00000F?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![Visual Studio Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Visual%20Studio%20Code-0078d7.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)
![BootStrap](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)
![PostMan](https://img.shields.io/badge/Postman-FF6C37?style=for-the-badge&logo=postman&logoColor=white)



<!---
<p align="left"> 
   <a href="https://www.cprogramming.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/c/c-original.svg" alt="c" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/cpp/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" alt="cplusplus" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/css/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" alt="css3" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/git-scm/git-scm-icon.svg" alt="git" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/github/github-original.svg" alt="GitHub" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.w3.org/html/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" alt="html5" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="javascript" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.mongodb.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mongodb" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://getbootstrap.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/bootstrap/bootstrap-plain-wordmark.svg" alt="bootstrap" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.python.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/python/python-original.svg" alt="python" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.mysql.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mysql/mysql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mysql" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://reactjs.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/react/react-original-wordmark.svg" alt="react" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.figma.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/figma/figma-icon.svg" alt="figma" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://expressjs.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/express/express-original-wordmark.svg" alt="express" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://heroku.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/heroku/heroku-icon.svg" alt="heroku" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://redux.js.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/redux/redux-original.svg" alt="redux" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://sass-lang.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/sass/sass-original.svg" alt="sass" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://tailwindcss.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-icon.svg" alt="tailwind" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img  src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" alt="typescript" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://nodejs.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg" alt="nodejs" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/vscode/vscode-original.svg" alt="Visual Studio Code" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://firebase.google.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/firebase/firebase-icon.svg" alt="firebase" width="50" height="50"/> </a> </p> 

--->


<div align="center"> 
    <img loading="lazy" width="24" align="center" src="https://github.com/montasim/montasim/blob/main/media/icons/pie-chart.png" alt="pie chart png" />
    <img loading="lazy" align="center" src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Poppins&weight=600&size=24&duration=1&pause=1&color=00B8B5&center=true&vCenter=true&repeat=false&width=220&height=24&lines=MY+GITHUB+STATS" alt="my GitHub stats svg" />
</div>

<br/>


<div align="center">
  <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/repos-per-language?username=yashk9293&theme=tokyonight" width="32%" /> 
  <img width="32%" src="https://montasim-github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=yashk9293&hide_title=false&count_private=true&hide=c%23,powershell,Mathematica,Ruby,Objective-C,Objective-C%2b%2b,Cuda&title_color=EB008B&text_color=FFFFFF&icon_color=61dafb&bg_color=0D1117&langs_count=8&layout=compact&border_color=61dafb&hide_border=true" alt="most used language stats" />
<!--   <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/most-commit-language?username=yashk9293&theme=tokyonight" width="auto" height="auto" /> -->
  <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/productive-time?username=yashk9293&utcOffset=+8.0&theme=tokyonight" width="32%" />
</div>

<div align="center">
    <!-- GitHub streak start -->
    <img loading="lazy" width=396 src="https://montasim-github-readme-streak-stats.vercel.app?user=yashk9293&hide_current_streak=true&hide_border=true&date_format=j%20M%5B%20Y%5D&background=0D1117&stroke=8F33C4&border=0D1117&ring=EB008B&fire=FFFFFF&currStreakNum=FFFFFF&sideNums=FFFFFF&currStreakLabel=EB008B&sideLabels=EB008B&excludeDaysLabel=EB008B&dates=FFFFFF" alt="current streak stats" />
    <!-- GitHub streak end -->
    <!-- GitHub stats start -->
    <img loading="lazy" width=396 src="https://montasim-github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=yashk9293&show_icons=true&include_all_commits=true&hide_title=true&count_private=true&line_height=29&theme=react&title_color=EB008B&currStreakLabel=EB008B&sideLabels=EB008B&icon_color=EB008B&bg_color=0D1117&text_color=FFFFFF&border_color=61dafb&hide_border=true" alt="github stats" />
    <!-- GitHub stats end -->
</div>



<!-- <div align="center">
  <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/productive-time?username=yashk9293&utcOffset=+8.0&theme=tokyonight" width="auto" height="auto" />
</div> -->

<br>
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/069dff95-6d5d-4813-9c21-1493108c3e14">


<img align="right" alt="programming" src="https://i.pinimg.com/originals/09/c6/29/09c62903beeba336dc9da76eb5c9a107.gif" width="300" />

- 🧑‍💻 Ex-Chapter Lead @**AlgoZenith Chapter IIIT Bhagalpur**

- 🛠️ Ex-Technical Lead @**GeeksforGeeks IIIT Bhagalpur Chapter**

- 📝 Ex-Beta @**Microsoft Learn Student Ambassador (MLSA)**

- ⚽ Interests - **Football, Esports, Cricket, Anime**

- ⭐ **Software Developer** driven by impact, building systems that scale, perform, and stand the test of real users

- 🚀 Love to talk about **Research and Innovation !**

- ❄️ Always excited to work on new technologies.💙

- 🧩 Thrive in collaborative environments where diverse ideas are valued and shared.

- 💡 Fun fact **Coding is a passion and not profession.**


<a href="#">
  <img width=100% src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=3da37a&height=120&section=footer"/>
</a>










<!---
yashk9293/yashk9293 is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->

Commit message:

Revise personal description in README
Updated personal description to focus on scalability and performance, removed redundant statements, and clarified interests.

README.md, after:

<a href="#">
  <img width=100% src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=3da37a&height=120&section=header"/>
</a>

# 🧑🏻‍💻 Hi, I'm Yash! Great to see you here <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/hvRJCLFzcasrR4ia7z/giphy.gif" width="28"> <img align="right" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Tarikul-Islam-Anik/Animated-Fluent-Emojis/master/Emojis/Animals/Penguin.png" alt="Penguin" width="15%" />
 <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?color=E22FE4&width=380&height=45&lines=Coding+Enthusiast;Always+Learning+New+Things;Empowering+Others;Nice+To+Meet+You+..."></a>

🚀 **`Digital Specialist Engineer @ Infosys`**  
💻 **`Full Stack & Backend Engineer | DSA & System Design`**  
🎯 **`Actively seeking SDE roles (MAANG / Product-Based Companies)`**

## 👨‍💻 About Me
Hi, I'm Yash Kumar ([@yashk9293](https://github.com/yashk9293)) a tech enthusiast and software developer. I have completed my Bachelors of Technology in Electronics & Communications Engineering (Major) with a Minor in Computer Science Engineering from Indian Institute of Information Technology, Bhagalpur (2021 - 25). I am a full-stack software developer and competitive programmer with strong experience in JavaScript/TypeScript ecosystems (MERN, Next.js) and Java-based backend systems (Spring Boot). I focus on building and scaling resilient, high-performance, production-ready applications. With a solid foundation in data structures, object-oriented design, and system development, I enjoy solving complex problems and staying aligned with industry trends to deliver impactful, production-ready solutions. I thrive in collaborative environments where ideas are shared, challenged, and transformed into meaningful outcomes.

<img align="right" alt="coding" width="500" src="https://media.giphy.com/media/SWoSkN6DxTszqIKEqv/giphy.gif">

<p align="left"> <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=yashk9293&label=Profile%20views&color=0e75b6&style=flat" alt="yashk9293" /> </p>

<p align="left">
  <a href="https://github.com/yashk9293?tab=followers">
         <img alt="followers" title="Follow me on Github" src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/github/followers/yashk9293?color=236ad3&labelColor=1155ba&style=for-the-badge&logo=person-add&label=Follow&logoColor=white"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/yashk9293?tab=repositories&sort=stargazers">
         <img alt="total stars" title="Total stars on GitHub" src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/github/stars/yashk9293?color=55960c&style=for-the-badge&labelColor=488207&logo=star"/></a>
</p>

- 🌱 I’m currently learning **Spring Boot**

- 💬 Ask me about **Data Structures & Algorithms, Backend Engineering, System Design**

- 📫 How to reach me **yashk9293@gmail.com**

- 🧑‍💻 Open to collaborative problem-solving on **Leetcode and Codeforces**.

<h3 align="left">Connect with me:</h3>
<p align="left">
<a href="https://twitter.com/yashk_9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/twitter.svg" alt="yashk_9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://linkedin.com/in/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/linked-in-alt.svg" alt="yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://instagram.com/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/instagram.svg" alt="yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://fb.com/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/facebook.svg" alt="yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
</p>


<br>
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/069dff95-6d5d-4813-9c21-1493108c3e14">

<!-- <p align="left"> <a href="https://github.com/ryo-ma/github-profile-trophy"><img src="https://github-profile-trophy.vercel.app/?username=yashk9293" alt="yashk9293" /></a> </p> -->

<div align="center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="https://montasim-github-profile-trophy.vercel.app?username=yashk9293&theme=radical&no-bg=true&no-frame=true"  alt="github profile trophy"/>
</div>





<!---
<h3 align="left">Profile Links:</h3>
<p align="left">
<a href="https://leetcode.com/u/hSay5/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/leet-code.svg" alt="https://leetcode.com/u/hSay5/" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://www.codechef.com/users/coderboy9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.1.0/icons/codechef.svg" alt="https://www.codechef.com/users/coderboy9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/user/yashk9293/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/geeks-for-geeks.svg" alt="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/user/yashk9293/" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://codeforces.com/profile/yashk9293" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.1.0/icons/codeforces.svg" alt="https://codeforces.com/profile/yashk9293" height="30" width="40" /></a>
</p>
--->

### 🧰 Languages and Tools:
![C](https://img.shields.io/badge/c-%2300599C.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=c&logoColor=white) 
![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/c++-%2300599C.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E) 
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-%23007ACC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-007396.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=java&logoColor=white)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-14354C?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Netlify](https://img.shields.io/badge/netlify-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=netlify&logoColor=#00C7B7) 
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-%23039BE5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase) 
![HTML](https://img.shields.io/badge/html-E34F26.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![Vercel](https://img.shields.io/badge/vercel-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white) 
![Render](https://img.shields.io/badge/Render-%46E3B7.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=render&logoColor=white)
![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB)
![TailwindCSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/tailwindcss-%2338B2AC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)
![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) 
![Nodemon](https://img.shields.io/badge/NODEMON-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=nodemon&logoColor=%BBDEAD)
![NPM](https://img.shields.io/badge/NPM-%23CB3837.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=npm&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB) 
![React Router](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_Router-CA4245?style=for-the-badge&logo=react-router&logoColor=white) 
![CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/css-1572B6.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-%234ea94b.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)
![Postgresql](https://img.shields.io/badge/postgreSQL-4169E1.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-039BE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=Firebase&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![Figma](https://img.shields.io/badge/figma-764ABC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=figma&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-00000F?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![Visual Studio Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Visual%20Studio%20Code-0078d7.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)
![BootStrap](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)
![PostMan](https://img.shields.io/badge/Postman-FF6C37?style=for-the-badge&logo=postman&logoColor=white)



<!---
<p align="left"> 
   <a href="https://www.cprogramming.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/c/c-original.svg" alt="c" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/cpp/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" alt="cplusplus" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/css/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" alt="css3" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/git-scm/git-scm-icon.svg" alt="git" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/github/github-original.svg" alt="GitHub" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.w3.org/html/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" alt="html5" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="javascript" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.mongodb.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mongodb" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://getbootstrap.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/bootstrap/bootstrap-plain-wordmark.svg" alt="bootstrap" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.python.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/python/python-original.svg" alt="python" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.mysql.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mysql/mysql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mysql" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://reactjs.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/react/react-original-wordmark.svg" alt="react" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.figma.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/figma/figma-icon.svg" alt="figma" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://expressjs.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/express/express-original-wordmark.svg" alt="express" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://heroku.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/heroku/heroku-icon.svg" alt="heroku" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://redux.js.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/redux/redux-original.svg" alt="redux" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://sass-lang.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/sass/sass-original.svg" alt="sass" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://tailwindcss.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-icon.svg" alt="tailwind" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img  src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" alt="typescript" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://nodejs.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg" alt="nodejs" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/vscode/vscode-original.svg" alt="Visual Studio Code" width="50" height="50"/> </a> &nbsp;
  <a href="https://firebase.google.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/firebase/firebase-icon.svg" alt="firebase" width="50" height="50"/> </a> </p> 

--->


<div align="center"> 
    <img loading="lazy" width="24" align="center" src="https://github.com/montasim/montasim/blob/main/media/icons/pie-chart.png" alt="pie chart png" />
    <img loading="lazy" align="center" src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Poppins&weight=600&size=24&duration=1&pause=1&color=00B8B5&center=true&vCenter=true&repeat=false&width=220&height=24&lines=MY+GITHUB+STATS" alt="my GitHub stats svg" />
</div>

<br/>


<div align="center">
  <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/repos-per-language?username=yashk9293&theme=tokyonight" width="32%" /> 
  <img width="32%" src="https://montasim-github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=yashk9293&hide_title=false&count_private=true&hide=c%23,powershell,Mathematica,Ruby,Objective-C,Objective-C%2b%2b,Cuda&title_color=EB008B&text_color=FFFFFF&icon_color=61dafb&bg_color=0D1117&langs_count=8&layout=compact&border_color=61dafb&hide_border=true" alt="most used language stats" />
<!--   <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/most-commit-language?username=yashk9293&theme=tokyonight" width="auto" height="auto" /> -->
  <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/productive-time?username=yashk9293&utcOffset=+8.0&theme=tokyonight" width="32%" />
</div>

<div align="center">
    <!-- GitHub streak start -->
    <img loading="lazy" width=396 src="https://montasim-github-readme-streak-stats.vercel.app?user=yashk9293&hide_current_streak=true&hide_border=true&date_format=j%20M%5B%20Y%5D&background=0D1117&stroke=8F33C4&border=0D1117&ring=EB008B&fire=FFFFFF&currStreakNum=FFFFFF&sideNums=FFFFFF&currStreakLabel=EB008B&sideLabels=EB008B&excludeDaysLabel=EB008B&dates=FFFFFF" alt="current streak stats" />
    <!-- GitHub streak end -->
    <!-- GitHub stats start -->
    <img loading="lazy" width=396 src="https://montasim-github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=yashk9293&show_icons=true&include_all_commits=true&hide_title=true&count_private=true&line_height=29&theme=react&title_color=EB008B&currStreakLabel=EB008B&sideLabels=EB008B&icon_color=EB008B&bg_color=0D1117&text_color=FFFFFF&border_color=61dafb&hide_border=true" alt="github stats" />
    <!-- GitHub stats end -->
</div>



<!-- <div align="center">
  <img src="http://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/productive-time?username=yashk9293&utcOffset=+8.0&theme=tokyonight" width="auto" height="auto" />
</div> -->

<br>
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/069dff95-6d5d-4813-9c21-1493108c3e14">


<img align="right" alt="programming" src="https://i.pinimg.com/originals/09/c6/29/09c62903beeba336dc9da76eb5c9a107.gif" width="300" />

- 🧑‍💻 Ex-Chapter Lead @**AlgoZenith Chapter IIIT Bhagalpur**

- 🛠️ Ex-Technical Lead @**GeeksforGeeks IIIT Bhagalpur Chapter**

- 📝 Ex-Beta @**Microsoft Learn Student Ambassador (MLSA)**

- ⚽ Interests - **Football, Esports, Cricket, Anime**

- ⭐ **Software Developer** focused on building scalable, high-performance systems 

- 🧩 Thrive in collaborative environments where diverse ideas are valued and shared

- 🚀 Interested in research-driven problem solving and innovation


<a href="#">
  <img width=100% src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=3da37a&height=120&section=footer"/>
</a>




<!---
yashk9293/yashk9293 is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
